Introduction to SpringBoot
Features and benefits of Spring Boot
Create first spring boot application -Create Build and Run
Adding -additional Dependencies like devtools,actuator
Views- using Thymleaf
Views- using JSP
SpringBoot application using Database access
SpringBoot application running on external server

------------------------------------------------

Spring Boot is a framework

Starter Modules
-------------------------
Different jar the application is dependent on.
We have to find out the jar and download into the 
In spring boot we can create a production-grade application.

Most spring boot application need very little spring configuration.


Spring boot please dont compare it to docker

XML free development. No need to write XML files
like XML free 


Spring boot is not an alternative to many core spring functionalities


Spring boot Features
-------------------

Create stand alone spring applications
Provides Opinionated started POMs to simplify your Maven configuration
Provide Production-ready Features such as metrics and externalized configuration
Absolutely no code generation and no requirement for XML configuration.
Using spring Boot
---------------

Spring will need to rely on build systems like Maven or Gradle.

Starter modules will be added.

Starters are a set of convenient dependency that you can include in your project.




Capabilities of spring Boot
----------------------------

It offers a fast way to build applications.
It offers less on infrastructure.
We have to configure TOMCAT or JETTY .
TOMCAT will be used as a server.
Initially we use a TOMCAT not JETTY.


Spring boot doesn't generate code or make edits  to your file .
Instead when you start up your application , Spring boot dynamically wires up beans and settings and applies them to your application context.


Application Context is a container.
We have to provide the POJO's .
we have 20 different ways of configuration applications, One of them is an externalized configuration.

configuration info some where like GitHub 
our application acts like configuration client and server acts like configuration server.


Gradel---supports multiple languages

Maven vs Gradel

if we use Maven as a build system we have to use pom.xml

if we use Gradel as a build system we have a file called as bit.gradel which will have all the dependencies

Gradel has so many features which maven dont support.
we can write scripts in Gradel and in maven we cant write scripts.
we can use maven in place as a Gradel
Both are alternatives.

Prerequisite for spring boot
----------------------------
1. JDK--->1.8 or open JDK also OK with either 10 or 11
2. STS IDE https://Spring
Spring Tools 4 for Eclipse


In java who manages memory---memory management is not of spring boot framework.

Creating a spring boot application
---------------------------------------

1.jdk-->1.8
2.STS TDE-https://spring.io/tools
Download ->double click->extracted to folder->click on .exe to launch the STS->Create a short cut icon on the desktop

3.Spring initializer

Spring initializr, is used for creating a project. we are not creating a project in 
Spring we are creating a project in Spring Initializr which is provided in https://start.spring.io/

Different Artifact and different name should be there in the project.

Extract the downloaded project zip file and import it as Maven project in STS IDE

Go to STS
in STS --->go to file
Imports 
click on existing Maven projects
click on finish 


Spring boot will add all the dependencies by itself , we dont need to add dependencies manually.



web.xml
---------------------

In web.xml we configure the dispatcher servlet.

1.spring boot will give us auto configurations.

2.spring boot starters will have different dependencies.

eg: Spring boot starter email consists of all the libraries that are required for the email application

3.Embedded servers
--------------
before spring boot we need to add servers to the application and run the servers.
eg: Tomcat what version we need to install.

4.CLI
--------
Spring boot also runs in CLI.

5.Spring boot actuators
-----------------
Application different modules how to run 

How well our application is running we can see in spring boot application.



Software setup for spring boot
---------------------------------
spring boot projects maximum companies will use STS only.

1,JDK
2,STS---spring tool suit
3,DataBase softwares.
4,Postman
















                   


































